README.md, before:

<header>

<!--
  <<< Author notes: Course header >>>
  Include a 1280×640 image, course title in sentence case, and a concise description in emphasis.
  In your repository settings: enable template repository, add your 1280×640 social image, auto delete head branches.
  Add your open source license, GitHub uses MIT license.
-->

# Introduction to GitHub

_Get started using GitHub in less than an hour._

</header>

<!--
  <<< Author notes: Step 1 >>>
  Choose 3-5 steps for your course.
  The first step is always the hardest, so pick something easy!
  Link to docs.github.com for further explanations.
  Encourage users to open new tabs for steps!
-->

## Step 1: Create a branch

_Welcome to "Introduction to GitHub"! :wave:_

**What is GitHub?**: GitHub is a collaboration platform that uses _[Git](https://docs.github.com/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary#git)_ for versioning. GitHub is a popular place to share and contribute to [open-source](https://docs.github.com/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary#open-source) software.
<br>:tv: [Video: What is GitHub?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBy1zgt0XPc)

**What is a repository?**: A _[repository](https://docs.github.com/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary#repository)_ is a project containing files and folders. A repository tracks versions of files and folders. For more information, see "[About repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/about-repositories)" from GitHub Docs.

**What is a branch?**: A _[branch](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary#branch)_ is a parallel version of your repository. By default, your repository has one branch named `main` and it is considered to be the definitive branch.  Creating additional branches allows you to copy the `main` branch of your repository and safely make any changes without disrupting the main project. Many people use branches to work on specific features without affecting any other parts of the project.

Branches allow you to separate your work from the `main` branch. In other words, everyone's work is safe while you contribute. For more information, see "[About branches](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-branches)".

**What is a profile README?**: A _[profile README](https://docs.github.com/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/managing-your-profile-readme)_ is essentially an "About me" section on your GitHub profile where you can share information about yourself with the community on GitHub.com. GitHub shows your profile README at the top of your profile page. For more information, see "[Managing your profile README](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/managing-your-profile-readme)".

![profile-readme-example](/images/profile-readme-example.png)

### :keyboard: Activity: Your first branch

1. Open a new browser tab and navigate to your newly made repository. Then, work on the steps in your second tab while you read the instructions in this tab.
2. Navigate to the **< > Code** tab in the header menu of your repository.

   ![code-tab](/images/code-tab.png)

3. Click on the **main** branch drop-down.

   ![main-branch-dropdown](/images/main-branch-dropdown.png)

4. In the field, enter a name for your branch: `my-first-branch`.
5. Click **Create branch: my-first-branch** to create your branch.

   ![create-branch-button](/images/create-branch-button.png)

   The branch will automatically switch to the one you have just created.
   The **main** branch drop-down bar will reflect your new branch and display the new branch name.

6. Wait about 20 seconds then refresh this page (the one you're following instructions from). [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) will automatically update to the next step.

<footer>

<!--
  <<< Author notes: Footer >>>
  Add a link to get support, GitHub status page, code of conduct, license link.
-->

---

Get help: [Post in our discussion board](https://github.com/skills/.github/discussions) &bull; [Review the GitHub status page](https://www.githubstatus.com/)

&copy; 2023 GitHub &bull; [Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/code_of_conduct.md) &bull; [MIT License](https://gh.io/mit)

</footer>

Commit message:

Update to 2 in STEP and README.md

README.md, after:

<header>

<!--
  <<< Author notes: Course header >>>
  Include a 1280×640 image, course title in sentence case, and a concise description in emphasis.
  In your repository settings: enable template repository, add your 1280×640 social image, auto delete head branches.
  Add your open source license, GitHub uses MIT license.
-->

# Introduction to GitHub

_Get started using GitHub in less than an hour._

</header>

<!--
  <<< Author notes: Step 2 >>>
  Start this step by acknowledging the previous step.
  Define terms and link to docs.github.com.
-->

## Step 2: Commit a file

_You created a branch! :tada:_

Creating a branch allows you to edit your project without changing the `main` branch. Now that you have a branch, it’s time to create a file and make your first commit!

**What is a commit?**: A _[commit](https://docs.github.com/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/about-commits)_ is a set of changes to the files and folders in your project. A commit exists in a branch. For more information, see "[About commits](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/about-commits)".

### :keyboard: Activity: Your first commit

The following steps will guide you through the process of committing a change on GitHub. A commit records changes in renaming, changing content within, creating a new file, and any other changes made to your project. For this exercise, committing a change requires first adding a new file to your new branch.

1. On the **< > Code** tab in the header menu of your repository, make sure you're on your new branch `my-first-branch`.

2. Select the **Add file** drop-down and click **Create new file**.

   ![create new file option](/images/create-new-file.png)

3. In the **Name your file...** field, enter `PROFILE.md`.

   **Note:** `.md` is a file extension that creates a Markdown file. You can learn more about Markdown by visiting "[Basic writing and formatting syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax)" in our docs or by taking the "[Communicating using Markdown](https://github.com/skills/communicate-using-markdown)" Skills course.

4. In the **Edit new file** area, copy the following content to your file:

   ```
   Welcome to my GitHub profile!
   ```

   <img alt="profile.md file screenshot" src="/images/my-profile-file.png"/>

5. For commits, you can enter a short commit message that describes what changes you made. This message helps others know what's included in your commit. GitHub offers a simple default message, but let's change it slightly for practice. First, enter `Add PROFILE.md` in the first text-entry field below **Commit new file** at the bottom of the page. Then, if you want to confirm what your screen should look like, expand the dropdown below.

   <img alt="screenshot of adding a new file with a commit message" src="/images/commit-full-screen.png" />

6. In this lesson, we'll ignore the other fields and click **Commit new file**.
7. Wait about 20 seconds then refresh this page (the one you're following instructions from). [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) will automatically update to the next step.

<footer>

<!--
  <<< Author notes: Footer >>>
  Add a link to get support, GitHub status page, code of conduct, license link.
-->

---

Get help: [Post in our discussion board](https://github.com/skills/.github/discussions) &bull; [Review the GitHub status page](https://www.githubstatus.com/)

&copy; 2023 GitHub &bull; [Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/code_of_conduct.md) &bull; [MIT License](https://gh.io/mit)

</footer>
